Update the on-call page of the handbook (#7432)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/engineering/on-call-rotation.md

---

Every week, three engineers are on call in shifts. If you're one of the lucky three, congratulations!

PostHog Cloud doesn't shut down at night (_whose_ night anyway?) nor on Sunday. As a 24/7 service, our goal is to be 100% operational 100% of the time. The universe doesn't always agree and hiccups do occur, which we catch in the form of service alerts. To make sure no alert goes unhandled, there is **always** one engineer on call, tasked with first-line defense.

## When is my turn?

We're very lucky that we have an almost-follow-the-sun rotation for service alerts, so nobody gets woken up in the middle of the night. Every engineer at PostHog is expected to be part of the rotation within one of the three PagerDuty schedules:

- [Europe](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#PF7ZGBT) (08:00 to 16:00 UTC)
- [Americas East](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#PW1E9Y4) (16:00 to 00:00 UTC)
- [Americas West](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#P3J10CZ) (00:00 to 08:00 UTC)

Before going on call, make sure you have the [PagerDuty mobile app](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/mobile-app) installed and configured. This way it'll be harder to miss an alert.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read and make sure you have the necessary access here: http://runbooks/oncall
```

Author: Good point about access, but added it to the "What do I do on call?" section where runbooks are already explained

Reviewer: this is a specific runbook page folks should review before they are oncall - so it falls under "Before going on call" as you mention here. We don't want them to start sorting out access after getting paged

Author: Oh, right. But it covers the same thing as this very section this PR is about. IMO this is exactly the stuff that should live in the handbook, which is the thing to read _before_ going on call. Then http://runbooks can be the streamlined resource for handling an alert, without higher-level distractions like this (though it can definitely link here).

I inlined the access section into this doc, let me know if it's good to go. [`91157a7` (#7432)](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/7432/commits/91157a7b54fd26d07cf42645442f84fa83bb9f69)

## What if I'm scheduled for a week when I won't be available?

Swap with another engineer in advance! Find a volunteer by asking in Slack, then use PagerDuty schedule overrides. You can trade whole weeks, but also just specific days. Remember not to alter the rotation's core order, as that's an easy way to accidentally shift the schedule for everyone.

## What do I do on call?

You just go about your day, paying no attention to being on call most of the time! But keep your laptop at hand, because when you do get paged, it's time to switch gears immediately and start investigating the alert.

A chunk of our high-frequency alerts have runbooks attached, most of which live [on the internal runbooks site](http://runbooks/). The runbook should tell you what to look at and easy fixes if there are any. Every alert also has a link to the Grafana graph that triggered the alert.

[If it looks like the alert should be raised as a public incident, go raise an incident.](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/incidents)

> If you're stumped and no resource is of help, get someone from the relevant team to shadow you while you sort the problem out. The idea is that they can help you understand the issue and where to find how to debug it. The idea is _not_ for them to take over at this point, as otherwise you won't be able to learn from this incident.

Reviewer: this is actually where we: at least pipeline and infra would like you to use the secondary oncall as the random person to pick.

Realistically what happens is you escalate and you work together. They might even say they got it & take over - that's fine, BUT the on-call should be responsible for making sure we always leave the campsite cleaner than we found it and add some more steps for this alert, that the next on-call could do before escalating. If there aren't any runbooks, add it and first 3 steps, then next time someone else can add another step or two that can be done before escalating. This is a very low time & effort way to get great runbooks / on-call sanity in a surprisingly short time as we're improving the runbooks for things that actually happen & history is the best indicator of the future. TLDR: if you escalated you should improve the runbook to make the next oncall's probability to need to escalate lower

Author: I think there is a point to secondary on-call, but it's not maintained at all. There are three on-call schedules distributed geographically, yet only a single secondary one, which immediately makes it useless ([schedules here](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules-new)). As an example for the current week, it makes zero, none, null sense to wake @mariusandra up in the middle of the night for an escalated ingestion delay – yet Marius _is_ currently on the hook.
If you're up for it though, I totally support you @tiina303 if you want to rethink secondary on-call. I think it's worth doing that separately from this revision

Reviewer: I agree for the not being awake part and if there are several people around just posting in the team channel for help could be a good solution - the team can self organise to have the current secondary on-call jump in if they are awake

Author: Based on what I noted above, I removed the existing all-team secondary schedule, so that we don't wake Marius on accident

- [Europe](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#PF7ZGBT) (08:00 to 16:00 UTC)
- [Americas East](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#PW1E9Y4) (16:00 to 00:00 UTC)
- [Americas West](https://posthog.pagerduty.com/schedules#P3J10CZ) (00:00 to 08:00 UTC)

Before going on call, make sure you have the [PagerDuty mobile app](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/mobile-app) installed and configured. This way it'll be harder to miss an alert.

## What if I'm scheduled for a week when I won't be available?

Swap with another engineer in advance! Find a volunteer by asking in Slack, then use PagerDuty schedule overrides. You can trade whole weeks, but also just specific days. Remember not to alter the rotation's core order, as that's an easy way to accidentally shift the schedule for everyone.

## What do I do on call?

You just go about your day, paying no attention to being on call most of the time! But keep your laptop at hand, because when you do get paged, it's time to switch gears immediately and start investigating the alert.

> To be ready, make sure you have access to:

Reviewer 2: My first stop when I get a page (or I see something on Slack) is almost always Grafana, so my suggestion would be to add links to http://grafana-prod-us/dashboards and http://grafana-prod-eu/dashboards like you have for the admin interfaces and Metabase.  Thanks so much for doing this!  It looks great!

Reviewer 3: Added it below 👍

- PostHog Cloud admin interfaces ([🇺🇸](https://app.posthog.com/admin/)  / [🇪🇺](https://eu.posthog.com/admin/)) - these require another team member to mark you as a staff user in both regions
- Metabase ([🇺🇸](http://metabase-prod-us/)  / [🇪🇺](http://metabase-prod-eu/)) – these might require another team member to invite you to both regions
- Our [tailnet](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-cloud-infra/blob/main/terraform/environments/README.md#connect-to-a-service-hosted-in-our-internal-network), which gates our internal services (such as Grafana and runbooks)
- [EKS](http://runbooks/eks/) over `kubectl` / `k9s`, in case you need to run Kubernetes cluster operations (such as restarting a pod)

> - [pganalyze](https://app.pganalyze.com/organizations/posthog/)

Reviewer 4: Should we just link to http://runbooks/oncall/ instead and have a single source of truth?
I also a PR with a few fixes btw https://github.com/PostHog/runbooks/pull/61

Reviewer 3: I'd lean towards having the handbook as the source of truth whenever possible. None of this needs to be "secret" in that sense (if it would be then there are probably bigger issues!)

The runbooks should go deeper for sure but given that this might be the first thing you read before even getting access to tailscale (and therefore runbooks) I think it makes most sense.

Author: I agree with Ben https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/7432#discussion_r1442201963

[If the alert is starting to have any noticeable impact on users, go raise an incident.](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/incidents) It's that simple.

If you're stumped and no resource is of help, get someone from the relevant team to shadow you while you sort the problem out. The idea is that they can help you understand the issue and where to find how to debug it. The idea is _not_ for them to take over at this point, as otherwise you won't be able to learn from this incident.

## Why is the on-call rotation spread across all engineers?

If you're in a product team, it's tempting to think that service alerts don't apply to you, or that when you're on call you can just hand everything off to the infrastructure team. That's not the case, because it's important that every engineer has a basic understanding of how our software is deployed, where the weak points in our systems are, and what the failure modes look like. This understanding should be all that's needed to follow the runbooks, and if you follow the causes of alerts, ultimately you'll be less likely to ship code that takes PostHog down.

> Besides knowledge, being on call requires availability – including weekends. If teams had their own separate rotations, there would be more people on call in total, and each would have to stand by 24/7 as our teams aren't big enough to follow the sun. This would be more stressful because of availability constraints, while being less productive because of the rare alerts being spread across multiple people.

Reviewer 4: > including weekends

Just to be sure, this is only if you get paged, you're not expected to be online during the whole weekend monitoring the systems, right? can we be more clear about that?

Reviewer 3: To me that felt covered by the "what do you do on call" part
> You just go about your day, paying no attention to being on call most of the time! But keep your laptop at hand, because when you do get paged, it's time to switch gears immediately and start investigating the alert.

Reviewer 4: Right, maybe because I just reviewed/read the support hero handbook and it was explicit about the Mondays-Fridays, I assumed that here too, and only at the end of the page did I read the "including weekends", probably an interpretation on my end, happy to keep as it is if this is clear for others as well.

Author: Good point! Reading this again I agree it's not clear what the deal with weekends is. Added this:
> Because the stability of production systems is critical, on-call involves weekends too (unlike Support Hero). More likely than not, nothing will happen over the weekend – but you never know, so the important thing is to keep your laptop at hand.

You just go about your day, paying no attention to being on call most of the time! But keep your laptop at hand, because when you do get paged, it's time to switch gears immediately and start investigating the alert.

> A chunk of our high-frequency alerts have runbooks attached, which live in our internal runbooks site: [http://runbooks/](http://runbooks/) (also accessible as [go/rb](http://go/rb/)). This site is part of our Tailscale network – if you don't have access, just ask in #dev.

Reviewer: You don't need to ask - just link to https://github.com/PostHog/runbooks/blob/main/docs/vpn.md#tailscale instead here

Author: ```suggestion
A chunk of our high-frequency alerts have runbooks attached, which live in our internal runbooks site: [http://runbooks/](http://runbooks/) (also accessible as [go/rb](http://go/rb/)). This site is part of our Tailscale network – if you don't have access yet, [follow these steps](https://github.com/PostHog/runbooks/blob/main/docs/vpn.md#tailscale).
```
